last than the European Union are
exploring ways to Julie stop the trade
in illegal timber to ensure Longwood
exporters and customers in Europe comply
with the requirements of the EU timber
regulations European diplomats and la
Commedia led by EU shutter effect
michelle koh phang visited lawn
furniture km5 company one of many Lao
companies that exports wood to the EU to
highlight this two-year old regulation
which prohibits the placing of illegal
harvest the timber on the European
market the European market for wooden
furniture is one of the world's largest
representing 23 billion euros per year
15 to 20 percent of which is imported Oh
mark I mean Mamie consumption cafe young
live hit the swagman hang glider rope
some paper tape Frank hit Netherland
okay yeah like a kid let's see yeah no
sorry in a potato pool representing the
loud furniture industry group Tom serve
and selenium art search they realized
the importance of the EU policy that
privated illegal timber exposed to the
market as other countries were adopting
similar measures for their markets as
well money we make sure that our
customers have all the information they
request for their eut our compliance we
will have systems in place that allow
our customers in the European Union to
have confidence in the legality of the
timber products that we provide them
with was a mafia song sinha by thong a
thong and Sabbath day
according to the president of la
furniture industry group the local
industry understood that the illegal
logging and would trade impacted both
economically and environmentally inward
exporting countries
in particular illegal logging and wood
trading had a huge impact on Laos for
example it lowered the price of la wood
on the world market the government lost
a huge amount of revenue and the timber
industry lost their opportunities to
develop because they were unable to
compete with illegal loggers the timber
industry sector is also attempting to
join with the government to take part in
the voluntary partnership agreements or
VPS negotiation with the EU I'm very
happy to visit this company here because
I think with a better access to the EU
market with the timber regulation I
think this type of company could export
a lot in Europe they're making fantastic
project for the moment because we don't
have a VP a a partnership agreement and
flick T certification
mr. Tong Sivan cannot export fully to
Europe but soon if we negotiate an
agreement he will be able to he used to
be an exporter to Europe now he cannot
but this is very impressive very good la
workers and very good machines the
machines are even coming from
from Europe so according to Michele
koufang the vpa is a supply-side measure
supporting countries like Laos to
address forest sector challenges
he said BPA's tried to address
challenges facing the entire sector
and not just those related to export
into the EU thing is that the European
market now since 2013 is not open to
illegal furniture or illegal wood made
furniture made of illegal wood so if you
want to export to Europe you have to
prove you have to have all evidence that
the wood you are using is coming from
the Lea a legal source so illegal
logging cannot cannot be used for a
furniture production that goes to Europe
but more and more it's not only the you
market it's the American market
Australian market many markets now
making putting restrictions on illegal
wooden so I hope very soon illegal
logging will not be of any use because
you will not be able to use it as a the
raw product for furniture the EU ter is
one of the tools of the EU sports law
enforcement governance and trade or
flagged action plan which aims to hold
the trade in illegal timber the EU
recognizing its responsibility as a
timber consumer probe attached the
placement of illegal timber on the EU
market with introduction of the EU TR in
March 2013
under the flecked action plan the EU
also started a voluntary scheme to
ensure that only legally harvested
timber is imported to the EU from
countries agreeing to take part in this
scheme the EU started negotiating by
electric voluntary partnership
agreements of EPA's with timber
exporting countries from around the
world in Laos the German government
supports the flecked process and the VPN
agassi Asians with five point eight
million euro through the perfect program